Welcome to Update - The Primate's World Relief and Development Fund newsletter and information bulletin for subscribers.

PWRDF is the Anglican Church of Canada's agency for sustainable development, relief, refugees, and global justice. With the support of Anglicans from across Canada, PWRDF makes financial and human resources available to support partners' initiatives to improve the quality of daily life and address the root causes of poverty and injustice. This list is an outgoing communication service from PWRDF only. Please contact Yvonne Lane at ylane@pwrdf.org for more information on any of the following items:

April 2009

1 .50th Anniversary Events 
2. Parish Mailing
3. PWRDF Partner Roundtables
4. Refugee Rights Day April 4
5. World Health Day April 7
6. Earth Day April 22
7. Family Calendar Focus 2009
8. From Refugees to Resource Persons
9. Youth -- Partnership moving forward
10 . Canada in the Americas
11. Inspiring Hope and Transforming Lives in the Diocese of Mount Kenya


1. 50th Anniversary Program 

The 50th anniversary website (http://www.pwrdf50.org) continues to be updated regularly with stories, photos, and resources. Be sure to send us stories about celebrations in your dioceses and parishes, so that we can share them through the website with others across the country. And be sure to sign the guestbook: http://www.pwrdf50.org/guestbook

Three refugee families have arrived in Canada as part of the "50 Refugee Family Sponsorships" initiative. Families from Colombia, Burma (Myanmar) and Ethiopia are beginning new lives in Edmonton, Ottawa, and London respectively with the help and support of Anglican parishes that have responded in a very tangible way to the gospel call to welcome the stranger. Contact Carolyn Vanderlip cvanderlip@pwrdf.org if you would like to learn more about this life-changing ministry. 

Stay tuned for more information, coming soon, about the 50 Leaders project - an exciting leadership development program for young Anglicans in Canada. For a preview, visit http://www.justgeneration.ca/node/216

Some of you have already used the 50th Anniversary PowerPoint presentation, and others have requested it. We have made it available for the next 7 days to download onto your computer through the website "You Send It":
https://rcpt.yousendit.com/671483566/f383bcb1d01c092f7ee01b3ff656dfca

Simply follow this link and click on "Download Now Securely".


2. Parish Mailing

Information on 50th Anniversary events and resources available is being mailed to all parishes as of March 30. Please watch out for this if you are the Parish Representative.

A printed copy of our Worship Resource will be included in the mailing. Please use the liturgical materials in this resource when it is desirable for congregations to highlight and promote the work of PWRDF -- and complement through displays and materials. The emphasis of these materials is "upon the sure and certain promises of God, recognizing that our efforts through PWRDF are an anticipation of the time when the justice and peace of God's Reign will be fully realized." 


3. PWRDF Partner Roundtables

The purpose of the roundtables is to assess the partnership approach through a mutual learning and dialogue process with our partners that is both South-South and South-North, in terms of theology of partnership, partnership policy and good practices on development and relief programming in the future. The events were divided into two components: three day roundtable with plenary and small group discussions of the issues of partnering, planning for the future and evaluation of both projects and partnerships, and then 2 or 3 days to visit with partners who facilitate PWRDF sponsored projects and to meet and talk with those involved with the projects. 

The Africa (Nairobi, Kenya) and Latin America/Caribbean (Matanzas, Cuba) meetings have already been held and you can read brief comments below. Future roundtable meetings will be held in Canada (Edmonton, AB) and Asia/Pacific (Dhaka, Bangladesh). In addition, a Global Roundtable will be held in Toronto in October.


4. Refugee Rights Day April 4

Refugee Rights day is celebrated on April 4 as that was the day in 1985 when the Supreme Court of Canada ruled that the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms protects the right of refugee claimants in Canada to life, liberty and security of the person, and that claimants are therefore entitled to an oral hearing, in accordance with the principles of fundamental justice and international law.

To find out more about refugee issues in Canada, and for some of the events taking place across Canada to mark this day in 2009, check the Canada Council for Refugees website: http://www.ccrweb.ca


5. World Health Day April 7

The World Health Organization is the directing and coordinating authority for health within the United Nations system. World Health Day 2009 focuses on the resilience and safety of health facilities and the health workers who treat those affected by emergencies.

CIDA provides a considerable amount of funding to PWRDF under their Health Sector Program. Many of the PWRDF projects focus on strengthening the capacity of local partners to provide essential services in integrated health work. Some examples of this includes the provision of bed nets, funding for HIV caregivers and educators, care for water sources, provision of funding for community health educators, etc.

In addition, as part of the eight Millennium Development Goals incorporated into the work of PWRDF, health is affected by many of them, including:

#1 Eradicate extreme poverty and hunger
#3 Promote gender equality and empower women
#4 Reduce child mortality
#5 Improve maternal health
#6 Combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases

For additional copies of the MDG wallet size cards, please contact pwrdf@pwrdf.org


6. Earth Day April 22

For suggestions on action packs, resources and community events, please check out the Earth Day Canada website: http://www.earthday.ca/pub/resources/action.php to see how you can participate. You might also choose to use KAIROS earth hour resources: http://www.kairoscanada.org/fileadmin/fe/files/PDF/Get__involved/earthHourService2009.pdf

Dear God,
Thank you for making this world a special and wonderful place.
Help me to remember to walk gently and to leave a light footprint on your earth.
Help me to take care of the earth, the way you asked Noah and Naamah to do. Amen

From: A Prayer for the Earth: The Story of Naamah, Noah's Wife by Sandy Eisenberg Sasso.

7. Family Calendar focus April 2009

Our calendar focus for April is ecology and stewardship and reflects on the work of our partners in Cuba who support local farmers on how to grow food organically in their communities and provide alternative sources of energy. In addition, the calendar activities at the back show children how to plant a potato maze and also how to make an accordion folded alphabet book about the earth. To read more about our work in the Latin America please see below.

8. From Refugees to Resource Persons

February and March were heavy travel months for our Development Team staff monitoring the PWRDF supported work of our partners. 

Naba Gurung was recently in: India -- to attend partner's meeting and to get an update on the nutrition project supported by PWRDF through Canadian Foodgrains Bank (CFGB); Kenya -- to meet with program staff on the Reproductive Health Program for refugees and host communities in Kakuma Refugee camp, and to meet with other church partners about plans they may have for projects in Sudan to support refugees returning to Sudan; Egypt -- to get oriented with the Refugee Egypt Program of the Anglican Church of Egypt; Ethiopia -- to review with CFGB food aid and food security in Ethiopia and in particular the current ACT International appeal which is supported by PWRDF.

Two of the stories that Naba brought back from our partner Organization for Ealam Refugees Rehabilitation(OfERR) in India was (i) of the work and skills they have developed in spirulina cultivation -- algae that possesses excellent health and economic benefits, and (ii) the refugee communities' contribution to rebuilding lives in Indian communities that were devastated by the tsunami . This example is about the invaluable contribution by the Sri Lankan Tamil refugees (who have been in India for over 20 years waiting for peace and an opportunity to return to their homeland) in helping the tsunami survivors in the host community use their expertise in psychosocial care learned while dealing with their own trauma in coping with the war and being displaced. For further information on this soon to be available photo essay, please contact pwrdf@pwrdf.org

9. Youth -- Partnership moving forward

Recently a PWRDF delegation met with the university students in Burundi in response to an invitation form the Diocesan Youth Worker in the Diocese of Bujumbura in 2007. The Anglican Church in Burundi is one of the few francophone Anglican churches in the world, and as such their experience of international Anglican community is limited. In order to combat this feeling of isolation, they want to build relationships and partnerships with other francophone Anglican groups. Because PWRDF has had a strong partnership relationship with the Diocese of Bujumbura since 1992, work was begun in 2007 to explore the idea of building closer ties between youth in Burundi and Canada.

The potential gains from this partnership are good -- the youth yearn to get to know people from other cultures and the potential to help PWRDF constituents to know and understand the work of the organization in development, as well as the sense of participation in that work, will lead to more young people being aware of PWRDF, justgeneration.ca, as well as stronger support for PWRDF's work. In Burundi, the Youth Council's existence and presence in the country is already being used as an example for the national Church of Burundi to emulate as a strong body, building up youth as leaders. Youth from Canada can, and have started since their visit to "help Burundians to learn to dream good dreams" of hope for the future.

10. Canada in the Americas

Latin America/Caribbean Program Coordinator, Suzanne Rumsey recently returned from two roundtable meetings and partner visits in Cuba and Guatemala. PWRDF staff and Diocesan network folk, partners from Mexico, Nicaragua, Guatemala, Peru, Brazil and Cuba were present, as well as members of the Continental Network of Indigenous Women.

One of the common themes that surfaced from the partners attending was safety, particularly that of the women attending. Many of them experienced a lack of safety in their home areas connected to their work on human rights and social justice issues. In Guatemala over the last few years there has been a general increase in violence and an increase of violent murders of women in particular; the rule of law is in chaos and impunity and corruption prevail. Mexico also has a justice system that consistently fails to address political and human rights crimes, and very little evident recognition by the government of the role of civil society.

Suzanne has since attended meetings of the Americas Policy Group(APG) of the Canadian Council for International Cooperation of which PWRDF is an active member. This event, entitled "What role for Canada in the Americas?" was an opportunity to put forward to Canadian government representatives analysis and proposals about Canada's relationship and role in the hemisphere in the lead-up to the IV Summit of the Americas taking place in Trinidad and Tobago in mid-April. Some of the ongoing issues are Free Trade agreements and Canadian mining interests in the region.

Partners of various APG members were present, including Michel Maza, a long-time Mexican human rights activist and partner of the Canadian churches.

11. Inspiring Hope & Transforming Lives in Diocese of Mount Kenya

At the roundtable meeting in Nairobi, Kenya, Doris M'Timkulu, Diocesan Representative for the Diocese of Niagara and PWRDF Board Member, Judy Oatway were present to understand the public engagement role of PWRDF. Afterwards, they visited some partner projects in and around the Mount Kenya area. Doris and Judy have both been doing speaking engagements within their respective Dioceses since their return, and we would like to share some of their comments with you:

In terms of Inspiring Hope, Doris reported: "the typical assumption is that the work of PWRDF and all those who make it possible inspires hope. We certainly saw plenty of that: I am thinking of Ruth and Ruben and their three children whose lives are sustained from the produce grown on one quarter acre of land. Thanks to the introduction of dairy goats they make enough cash to replace their mud house with a "modern" house, join a water co-op to connect to a water pipe, and cover educational expenses for the children. I also think of the 20 women and 10 men who, after being abandoned by their families as PLWA's (patients living with AIDS), support each other, raise chickens and grow vegetables in "millennium gardens", thus regaining relative health. Without essential nutrients, Anti-retroviral drugs would kill rather than control diseases."

In terms of Transforming Lives Judy reported: "The visits to communities to take note of the new water installation, the dairy to process goats' milk and other milk projects and the kenbo chicken production, could be called nothing less than successful and transformative. But it was the times spent in the company of those who were able to transform their lives, often returning from near death, to be so empowered they felt compelled to give that same opportunity to others, that spoke to the indomitable spirit of humanity. It was the group of women who came together to support each other during the scourge of HIV/AIDS; the group of community workers who trained others so that they could return to their villages to share with those who could not participate in the initial training. I found the three full days spent in Mount Kenya East, sharing in the joy of the families and communities that are experiencing transition to be a humbling and overwhelming experience. Our abundance here in Canada needs to be shared with so many others."

There are many stories of suffering in the world, but some stories have a happy ending. Along with you and its partners on the ground, PWRDF makes a difference in the lives of men, women and children who are able to tell others how their lives have been transformed for the better.

Wishing you all a blessed Easter.

Thank you for supporting The Primate's World Relief and Development Fund (PWRDF)

----------

You are currently subscribed to %%list.name%% as: %%emailaddr%%.
To unsubscribe click here: %%url.unsub%%
or send a blank email to %%email.unsub%%

Primate's World Relief and Development Fund
The Anglican Church of Canada
80 Hayden Street
Toronto Ontario M4Y 3G2