Welcome to Update - The Primate's World Relief and Development Fund newsletter and information bulletin for subscribers.

PWRDF is the Anglican Church of Canada's agency for sustainable development, relief, refugees, and global justice. With the support of Anglicans from across Canada, PWRDF makes financial and human resources available to support partners' initiatives to improve the quality of daily life and address the root causes of poverty and injustice. This list is an outgoing communication service from PWRDF only. Please contact Yvonne Lane at ylane@pwrdf.org for more information on any of the following items:

December 2008

1. PWRDF 50th Anniversary Café - **coming soon**
2. Primate & PWRDF Youth attend MDGs meeting
3. justgeneration.ca
4. PWRDF Humanitarian Response
5. Canadians response to hunger in Zimbawbe
6. PWRDF 2009 Family Calendar
7. 2009 Justice Camp to focus on poverty
8. 2008 Annual Appeal
9. Looking ahead within the parish
10 Local Heroes - ...and a little child shall lead them ...

1. 50th Anniversary Cafe

Please watch out for the launching of our new online 50th Anniversary Cafe at http://www.pwrdf50.org

From a volunteer recognition event in Montreal, to a memorial service in Rupert's Land, to a fundraising dinner and auction in Hamilton, Ontario, people have been finding various ways to animate the four goals of the 50th anniversary:  Celebration, Awareness raising, Fundraising, and Education (CAFE).  Many more events have taken place or are being planned, and we want to hear about them and share them with others!

Please send us notice of your upcoming events and stories and photos of events that have taken place, and then look for them on our new online 50th Anniversary Cafe, coming soon!  Send your submissions for the 50th website to Carolyn Vanderlip, PWRDF 50th Anniversary Program Facilitator at cvanderlip@pwrdf.org.

2. MDG Meeting

Archbishop Fred Hiltz, attended the December 5 round table co-hosted by the Tony Blair Faith Foundation and the Belinda Stronach Foundation in Toronto.  The meeting gathered 30 Canadian faith leaders to plan cooperative action towards achieving the Millenium Development Goals (MDGs), eight targets for improving the lives of the world's poorest, by 2015.  Out of this initial round table discussion, the Blair and Stronach foundations will form an interfaith steering group to advance the MDGs, and to take particular action against malaria, part of the sixth MDGs. For more information: http://tonyblairfaithfoundation.org.

The meeting also served as the Canadian launch of Faiths Act Fellows, a program that will train 30 young people as inter-religious ambassadors for the MDGs. Between the ages of 18-25 and interested in become one of 30 young people to work as inter-religious ambassadors for the MDGs?  If so, you can be a Fellow.  Inspired young people of faith who have demonstrated an on-going commitment to inter-religious understanding, social justice and global service can apply.  It will mean a one year commitment, training in London and Chicago; immersion in either Mali, Tanzania or Malawi.  For more information, check out http://www.faithsactfellows.org.

3. justgeneration.ca

justgeneration.ca is the website for the Youth Initiative of PWRDF.  It is full of stories, photos, video resources and more for youth and youth leaders in Canada to learn more about and get active in issues of justice and faith!  For the latest news on the site, click here http://www.justgeneration.ca

PWRDF Youth Council members Beth Lorimer and Heather Pearson accompanied Archbishop Fred Hiltz to the December 5 round table co-hosted by the Tony Blair Faith Foundation and the Belinda Stronach Foundation in Toronto.  Details about the event and an opportunity for youth are found above.

4. PWRDF Humanitarian Response

Food Crisis in Ethiopia 
Action by Churches Together Ethiopia Forum is actively engaged in emergency relief, recovery and rehabilitation programs in 15 districts of Ethiopia through an ACT Appeal that aims to reduce loss of life, minimize human suffering and ensure early recovery of the drought-affected population. The appeal targets to address the food needs of 120,880 people affected by the drought/food crisis, improve the nutritional status of the vulnerable groups and meet the early recovery needs of the drought affected population through the provision of agricultural inputs, mainly seeds.  PWRDF contribution is $35,000 to this ACT appeal. 

Democratic Republic of Congo 
ACT members in the DRC are targeting to assist 11,750 Internally Displaced Peoples (IDPs), returnees and host family households, approximately 58,750 people, in North and South Kivu.  The activities under the appeal include provision of water, sanitation and hygiene facilities; distribution of agricultural inputs (seeds and tools); provision of nutritional supplements;  psycho-social support and trauma healing; and distribution various relief items for immediate material needs. PWRDF contributed $25,000 to this appeal. 

Response to Food Crisis in Afghanistan
Huge displacement of farmers and the widespread destruction and lack of maintenance of rural infrastructure over more than two decades of war has created food crisis in the province of Zabul, Afghanistan. PWRDF and other members of the Canadian Foodgrains Bank have responded to this crisis in partnership with the Presbyterian World Service and Development who are taking a lead role for the project. The project aims at alleviating immediate food shortages through food-for-work projects, rehabilitating and developing basic infrastructure to tackle long-term food crisis, and improving livelihoods of community members through improvement in farming techniques. PWRDF contribution to this project is $20,000.

5. Canadians Respond to hunger in Zimbawbe

Canadian Foodgrains Bank (CFGB) members have responded to the growing need for food in Zimbawbe and provided rations to sustain approximately 120,000 beneficiaries for 5 months, until the next harvest.

It is estimated that Zimbabwe faces one of the most significant food crises in the world in coming months, due to recent drought, poor agricultural policies, a lack of agricultural inputs, and a rapidly declining economy.  Further compounding the situation is the high prevalence of HIV and AIDS and a recent cholera outbreak.

However, there is some positive news as the CFGB supports long-term food security projects in three districts of Zimbawbe.  Farmers with small land holdings are learning the principles of a new farming system called Conservation Farming.  As a result, some farmers have tripled their corn yields through timely planting, precision fertilizer and manure placement and covering the soil with mulch to reduce soil erosion and conserve moisture.  In particular, moisture conservation has been key, given the increasing intensity and frequency of droughts in the region.  The mulch layer for many farmers is the difference between no yield and food for 3 to 6 months to feed their families.

6. PWRDF 2009 Family Calendar

Our calendar for 2009 is a gift to you and your congregations.  As we are celebrating our 50th anniversary, we wanted to share with you many of the successes that we have.  Each month the calendar highlights a partner in one of the regions where we work and at the back there is a corresponding page or two of activities.  We think you will find it appropriate for all age groups, as well as being informative and educational.

One of the most important principles of our work has always been partnership.  Our 50th anniversary logo is a symbol of hands around the world joined in partnership and solidarity; hands extended and linked in the belief that together, we can changes lives, change communities, and change the world.

Bishop Kumara Illangasinghe from Kurunegla, Sri Lanka sent the following message:

"Greetings from Kurunegla, Sri Lanka!  We are in receipt of the calendar and Christmas blessings sent by PWRDF, which arrived in our office today.  The theme verse included is a great message of hope and perseverance in a time of difficulty.  Especially in Sri Lanka, where we long for "living water" in the midst of conflict, we are assured to hear that the tree will not die, and will sprout young, healthy shoots."

If you don't already have a copy and would like one for yourself or your community, please let us know by emailing pwrdf@pwrdf.org.

7.	2009 Justice Camp to focus on poverty

The 2009 justice camp will be held August 9-15 in the Diocese of Nova Scotia and PEI in Halifax and the theme will focus in on poverty - "Finding Abundance"

Justice camps are week-long immersion experiences focusing on a specific justice issue in the light of Bible study and prayer.  They're an initiative of the Partners in Mission and Ecojustice Committee at General Synod, but are locally lead.  Each camp integrates hands-on experience, and includes a mix of ages, of men and women, of locals and out-of-towners with 50% of the age range being 18-30 and 50% over 30.  PWRDF is involved on the planning team and will be offering financial support to attendees from PWRDF networks, watch for more news next month. To learn more and be inspired, please check the website  http://www.justicecamp.ca.

8.	2008 Annual Appeal

The 2008 PWRDF Appeal is currently being mailed to all direct donors. We have included a PWRDF bookmark as well as a wallet card "123s of MDGs" where we outlined the 8 Millennium Development Goals in an easy to read format. 

We understand how difficult these economic times may be for some donors, but we also believe that as Anglicans we respond in hope. As noted by the Primate in his letter

"I ask you to join me on this journey of transformation and to assist PWRDF in reaching the 2008 appeal goal of $100,000.  I believe that responding in hope carries out our gospel call to "love one another as I have loved you."

We believe it is important to communicate the work of partners and the work that donors support through their donations. Please let us know what you are interested in hearing about. We are also interested in sharing some donor stories about why donors believe in and financially support PWRDF.  If you know of any stories, or names for us to contact in order to hear their story, please let us know.

Contact Debra Pickfield at dpickfield@pwrdf.org or 416-924-9199 ext 205 to share ideas.

9.	Planning ahead to 2009

As we begin to think ahead to the New Year, Annual Vestry meetings can't be far away. These important meetings occur in late January or February depending on your parish. Consider a conversation with your clergy person or wardens to see what the plans are for the meeting. Can you do a short PWRDF presentation? Could the lunch use PWRDF placements and bookmarks? Will you or someone else be continuing in the role of PWRDF parish representative? If not, have the nominating committee included the role of PWRDF parish representative on their list of positions to fill.

Vestry meetings are key moments in the life of our parishes when we can celebrate the ministries we have been involved in and look ahead to the new ones we can undertake. Make sure that PWRDF is part of the conversation. For more information and ideas be sure to get a copy of "The Vital Link" a tool kit for parish representatives pwrdf@pwrdf.org.

International Development Week - February 1-7, 2009 - for more about this week, please refer to the CIDA website http://www.acdi-cida.gc.ca/IDW

10.	10.	Local Heroes - ...and a little child shall lead them ... (Isaiah 11: 1-10).

This was submitted by Judy Oatway, PWRDF Board member who attended our regional meeting in Cape Breton, Nova Scotia in early October, 2008:

It was on Sunday, October 5, as a most successful weekend spent in fellowship and dialogue with our indigenous partners of Membertu...in the parish of St. Mary's, Glace Bay, Nova Scotia, was gradually coming to an end.  It is tradition at the close of such Regional Meetings that PWRDF staff and board members visit nearby parishes to share the stories of the work of  PWRDF.    Beth Baskin left with the Rev. Vernon Reid to visit two of his five point parish ministry.  I remained in Glace Bay to be the guest of the Rev. Fev Arnold, Priest Assistant, and the congregation of St. Mary's and had the privilege to share the PWRDF story that morning.

The narthex gradually filled with relatives and friends... exchanging greetings, asking after each other's health, commenting on the national election...when I was approached by a woman, eager to share her story.  It was on January 5, 2005, less than two weeks after the devastating tsunami that created death and destruction throughout much of Indonesia, that Rebecca Mailman, her granddaughter, celebrated her eleventh birthday.  The word had been sent out by Rebecca to her friends that they were not to bring gifts but donations that would be sent to the relief of those whose lives had been altered forever.  Rebecca and her grandmother sent the birthday funds to PWRDF where they were matched by the Canadian government.

Rebecca is a regular supporter of PWRDF.  She fills the coin boxes and encourages her friends to do the same.  Rebecca will soon be 15.  She is still an active parishioner of St. Mary's and a member of the Junior Choir.

Rebecca is the daughter of Donna and Darryl Mailman.

Wishing you peace, love and happiness in this blessed season

Thank you for supporting The Primate's World Relief and Development Fund (PWRDF)

You are currently subscribed to %%list.name%% as: %%emailaddr%%.
To unsubscribe click here: %%url.unsub%%
or send a blank email to %%email.unsub%%

Primate's World Relief and Development Fund
The Anglican Church of Canada
80 Hayden Street
Toronto Ontario M4Y 3G2