Welcome to Update - The Primate's World Relief and Development Fund newsletter and information bulletin for subscribers.

PWRDF is the Anglican Church of Canada's agency for sustainable development, relief, refugees, and global justice. With the support of Anglicans from across Canada, PWRDF makes financial and human resources available to support partners' initiatives to improve the quality of daily life and address the root causes of poverty and injustice. This list is an outgoing communication service from PWRDF only. Please contact Yvonne Lane at ylane@pwrdf.org for more information on any of the following items:

February 2009

1.  Lenten Devotional - Peace and Compassion 
2.	The Primate's Reflections from Egypt
3.	Youth delegation to Burundi
4.	Partner news -
-	Teatro Obrero in the Philippines
-	CFGB
-	Kairos
5.	Family Calendar for March, 2009
6.	Under the Sun April 2009
7.	Emergency in Northern Sri Lanka
8.	Staff Travels
9.	International Dates
10.	Local Heroes


1. Lenten Devotional - Peace and Compassion 

We are pleased to be able to share with you a Lenten resource originally prepared by our sister organization Episcopal Relief & Development in the US. We are providing it on the web only in order to keep costs down. The devotional provides daily meditations that feature reflections adapted from the writings of Rev Barbara C. Crafton. You are invited to consider the simple steps that you can take to impact the lives of people living in poverty worldwide.  Available on our website https://www.pwrdf.org/resources/2008-annual-resources/#c3456. If you use this please let us know as we are considering the printing of a resource for Lent 2010.


2. The Primate's Reflections from Egypt

At the conclusion of the recent Primate's meeting in Alexandria, Egypt, Archbishop Fred Hiltz published a letter to the Churches of the Anglican Communion.  At the time he was en route to PWRDF meetings in Kenya and then to Burundi for visits to HIV/AIDS and youth clinics supported by PWRDF and a preaching engagement in the Cathedral in Bujumbura.

Archbishop Hiltz noted in his reflections about the "grave situation in Zimbabwe, the tragedy of the renewed violence in Sudan and horrific acts of hostility in Gaza.  So urgent is the need for the Church's response to these life-and-death situations that a statement on each was issued.  I draw your attention to the call for the Churches of the Communion:

-	To observe Ash Wednesday, 2009 as a day of prayer and solidarity with the people of Zimbabwe (Many churches are observing this on March 1 as well)
-	To call on the international community, "not to abandon the people of Sudan"
-	To call on our Governments "to use their best efforts to secure an immediate and lasting ceasefire in Gaza as an essential precondition to lasting peace"

To use the bulletin insert with a prayer and intercessions for Zimbabwe, check out the ACC website at https://news.anglican.ca/news/stories/2030


3. Youth delegation to Burundi

Last month we wrote about our youth travels to Kenya and Burundi.  We look forward to hearing more from Simon, Evan, Heather and Maureen about the trip, what they learned and how they connected with the youth of Burundi but if you would like to read from their blog, check it out at https://pwrdfblog.livejournal.com/


4. Partner News

One of the nice things about our 50th Anniversary website (www.pwrdf50.org) is that it is interactive and people can post their own stories. Please go in and post your story, we are waiting to hear it. This is what we found recently when checking the guestbook:

For almost two decades of being a partner of PWRDF, I can honestly say that PWRDF was able to extend its hands not only by the financial support it shared to the sons and daughters of the sugar workers in the island of the Negros, Philippines in their quest to be empowered using various forms of arts in its education, training and advocacy program but most importantly - PWRDF was able to strengthen the friendship and solidarity of the Canadians and Filipinos. I am proud to share what I have experienced to my son with the hope that someday he can also share the wisdom the PWRDF taught us.
50 years and still serving - that's PWRDF! - Teatro Obrero, Philippines - 

Canadian Foodgrains Bank (CFGB) recently successfully completed the procurement and delivery of 44,500 tonnes of wheat to Ethiopia on behalf of CIDA.  CIDA estimates that the savings generated by having the Foodgrains Bank conduct this operation has resulted in additional food for half a million people in Ethiopia.  As a Christian response to hunger, we too are proud of our partner's work.

KAIROS  - for the latest news and updates from our ecumenical justice partner, please check out the website and subscribe to their monthly e-newsletter.  https://kairoscanada.org/en/


5. Family Calendar for March

Our calendar focus for March is the Philippines and coincidentally, the partner mentioned above, Teatro Obrero.  This is a group that gives youth a voice and an outlet though music, drama and dance after a life consisting of going to school and then directly to a plantation to pick sugar cane, seven days a week. In addition, the back of the calendar features a map of the Philippines and some exercises that are fun to do.  Please check it out, and if you would like copies of the 2009 Calendar, please contact pwrdf@pwrdf.org

6. Under the Sun - April, 2009
Our next issue is currently in production and will be available as an insert in the April issue of The Anglican Journal.  Please watch out for it and share it!  If you would like to receive bulk quantities for handout in your parish or for special events, please contact pwrdf@pwrdf.org and give your name and address and the number of copies required.

7. PWRDF Responds to the Emergency in Northern Sri Lanka
With the ending of the ceasefire agreement and onset of heavy fighting between the Sri Lankan army and the Liberation Tamil Tigers Eelam (LTTE), thousands of civilians are fleeing the war zone in northern Sri Lanka.  These internally displaced people (IDP's) move from place to place with no or very little belongings. They are in urgent need of emergency assistance in the form of food, water, medicine, clothes, shelter, etc.  

PWRDF has provided funding through the Canadian Foodgrains Bank to feed 3,600 displaced civilians for a month who have fled the war zone.

With regular grant support from PWRDF, our partner Organization for Eelam Refugees Rehabilitation (OfERR) Sri Lanka office has been working with the refugee returnees and IDPs in the north and eastern Sri Lanka since 2004.  The organization carries out rehabilitation, resettlement and development activities to support returnee and Internally Displaced Populations (IDPs) in the north and northeastern part of Sri Lanka.

8. Staff Travels
Mahjabeen Chwodhury has recently returned from a partner monitoring trip to Bangladesh, in particular the three implementing partners of the three year PWRDF-CIDA health sector program that began in August 2008.  

(i) Jgoroni Chakra Foundation (JCF) working in Jessore, in the SW of Bangladesh is creating opportunities for disadvantaged children of sex trade workers, hirijans (the low caste) as well as the poorest of the poor who do not have access to education for their children. JCF have opened 7 learning centres where the children are enrolled to receive education and engage in various activities, such as painting, dance and drama.

(ii) UBINIG  - a policy research group for development alternatives in Bangladesh is working through their Nayakrishi Andolon (the new agriculture movement) to enable farmers to work towards a healthy eco-system and a healthy way of life. Each household in a farming community produces enough food for its own consumption, surplus income and has its own seed stock to continue with the food production cycle without being dependent on market demands and supply. The underlying principle is to practice bio-diversity based on farming that ensures growing a variety of crops, fruits and vegetables according to the seasons in a year as well as raising cattle, poultry and fish, creating a healthy balance in the ecosystem.  

(iii) The Church of Bangladesh's Social Development Program is working with women in urban slums in the capital city of Dhaka. Women in the program are now able to have their own income, which in turn has increased their family's wellbeing through improved nutrition and better health.  They can now send their children to school and provide a better future for them. Before the program, these women had no access to income, education and/or knowing what their rights were or what they could do to exercise their rights.  They were victims of domestic violence and had no recognition in the community of their existence. This program is succeeding in its goal to ensure women's empowerment by creating income earning opportunities for them, providing legal assistance, adult literacy opportunities and primary health care education.  

Several other development staff are currently traveling. Visit www.pwrdf.org and watch your inbox for news of their travels.


9. International Events for March 2009

March 6 - World Day of Prayer - the motto for this day is Informed Prayer and Prayerful Action.  For more information to guide prayerful action and the background on this day in Canada, check the Women's Inter-Church Council of Canada website https://www.wicc.org/programsevents/World_Day_of_Prayer/index.html

March 8 - International Women's Day - for events across Canada to celebrate 2009, check https://www.internationalwomensday.com/search.asp?country=37

March 22 - World Water Day - the international observance of World Water Day is an initiative that grew out of the 1992 United Nations Conference on Environment and Development in Rio de Janeiro https://www.worldwaterday.org/

March 24 - International Day for the Elimination of Racial Discrimination - https://www.un.org/Depts/dhl/racial/index.html

March 28 - Earth Hour - for resources to celebrate Earth Hour on Saturday, March 28, 2009, check out the Kairos website https://www.kairoscanada.org/en/get-involved/earth-hour/


10.	Local Heroes

Heather Karabelas, our Diocesan Representative in the Diocese of  Kootenay let us know about her friend, Rose Lloyd, a very special person at St. Andrew's, Kelowna:

Rose Lloyd has been the parish PWRDF representative at St. Andrew's Anglican Church in Kelowna for approximately 10 years.  In that time Rose has delivered PWRDF sermons, initiated parish fundraising ideas, faithfully sold PWRDF Christmas cards and has delivered a Lenten Series using PWRDF audio visual resources. Rose is driven by a strong core of inner values and her life demonstrates those values. Rose has worked with energy and dedication during her years as a PWRDF parish representative. She is dedicated to PWRDF because she believes in the importance of God's call to service locally and globally.  Through prayer, giving and involvement Rose continues to be an advocate for the work of the PWRDF.  I am grateful to Rose for her example and  for mentoring me in my work with PWRDF.

In gratitude and thanksgiving..... Heather Karabelas, Deacon, St. Michael & All Angels Cathedral, Kelowna, BC

Thank you Heather, and also to Rose for her commitment and stewardship.


Thank you for supporting The Primate's World Relief and Development Fund (PWRDF)

You are currently subscribed to %%list.name%% as: %%emailaddr%%.
To unsubscribe click here: %%url.unsub%%
or send a blank email to %%email.unsub%%

Primate's World Relief and Development Fund
The Anglican Church of Canada
80 Hayden Street
Toronto Ontario M4Y 3G2