Welcome to Update -- The Primate's World Relief and Development Fund's newsletter and information bulletin for subscribers.

PWRDF is the Anglican Church of Canada's agency for sustainable development, relief, refugees, and global justice. With the support of Anglicans from across Canada, PWRDF makes financial and human resources available to support partners' initiatives to improve the quality of daily life and address the root causes of poverty and injustice. This list is an outgoing communication service from PWRDF only. 

July 2009

1. Happy Canada Day
2. Update on partners in Latin America
3. Mohawk Language and culture
4. 50 Refugee Families Sponsorship
5. PWRDF Equity in Canadian Foodgrains Bank
6. Humanitarian response
7. Gender Equality Learning Program in Mozambique
8. Gender and HIV
9. How to keep PWRDF on the radar over the summer ...

1. Happy Canada Day

Even though you may be receiving this after July 1, we think it an appropriate time to reflect on the work and the status of our first nations peoples as last month we marked the first anniversary of the government of Canada's apology to Indigenous people who suffered abuse as children in Indian residential schools. Jose Zarate, Coordinator, Indigenous Peoples Development Program has written a piece "Saying we're sorry".

2. Update on partners in Latin America 

We are pleased to report that since our June Email Update, representatives from the Canadian Embassy in Guatemala have visited Miriam Iquique. PWRDF is currently exploring with other organizations the possibility of providing some physical accompaniment to Miriam. We have also sent a message of appreciation to the Embassy for its positive response to our request and support to our partner. We take this opportunity to thank you for your prayers of support and expressions of concern for Miriam.

You can read more partner news from LAC on our website.

3. Mohawk Language and Culture

Imagine what it would be like to grow up without knowing how to say "hello" in your traditional language. This was the reality for Mohawk children in Kahnawake, Quebec. Thanks to the work of PWRDF Partner, Kanien'kehaka Onkwawen:na Raotitiohkwa (KOR), many children have learned to say "Sekoh" (hello) in Mohawk. KOR produces a TV series called "Tota Tanon Ohkwa:ri" which teaches the Mohawk language and culture. See more about this in our calendar story for July.

4. 50 Refugee Families Sponsorship Program

Carolyn Vanderlip is on vacation for the month of July but before leaving she did let us know that there are 17 confirmed sponsorships under the PWRDF 50 Refugee Families Sponsorship initiative. 7 of these sponsorships are for Palestinian Iraqi refugees from the Al Hol refugee camp on the Iraq/Syria border, including a family of 9! Anglicans in Canada have shown great leadership in offering sponsorships for this group of refugees, whose only opportunity to find a durable solution to their situation is to find a private sponsor in Canada.

The 17 sponsorships represent a total of 53 people; men, women and children who have or will soon be beginning new lives in Canada -- thanks to the Anglican parishes who have committed to welcoming and supporting them. In addition to the Palestinians from Iraq, we have conformed sponsorships for refugees from Colombia, Burma, the Democratic Republic of Congo and Eritrea. We also have 5 parishes either awaiting or considering specific profiles to sponsor, and a number or parishes in various stages of preparation for a sponsorship.

To find out more about how your parish or diocese could become involved in the life changing ministry of refugee sponsorship, you can find more information at http://www.pwrdf50.org/refugee-sponsorship

5. PWRDF Equity in the Canadian Foodgrains Bank

PWRDF joined CFGB as a member in June 2007. CFGB is collectively owned by its 15 member agencies, who are churches or their specialized ministries representing almost all Christian denominations in Canada. Each member has an account in CFGB (note the work bank in its name), to which respective constituency members can donate.

CFGB does not do direct programming, it is the members who do this, mostly through their partners in the global south. Members use their equity for programming, which in many cases is matched by CIDA funds that CFGB receives. Currently, CFGB receives $25 million from CIDA every year. From time to time, members collaborate on a case by case basis by contributing equity to the programs initiated by other member/s.

Some of the recent uses of our equity with CIDA funding ratio are as follows:

* Nutritional support for Sri Lankan refugees in Tamilnadu, India -- 2 years, $250,000 each year. $50,000 from PWRDF equity, CIDA match 1:9 
* Emergency food assistant to IDP's in Northern Sri Lanka, Feb-April, 2009. $75,000 -- CIDA match 1:4
* Nutritional support to HIV affected and infected people in South Africa (Temba House) -- 3 years, $56,000 per year. CIDA match 1:9


There are currently some proposals in the works -- Sri Lanka second phase responding to IDPs with food and nutritional assistance, right to food proposal in Bangladesh, and a food security project in Kenya. However, we cannot respond to these needs without your support with contributions to our equity account. Please see below for an easy way to donate. 

6. Humanitarian Response

From 1983 to 2005 civil war between north and south Sudan killed at least two million people, mostly civilians, and displaced more than four million. A whole generation of people living in South Sudan have been denied adequate shelter, food, water and education.

A recent CFGB delegation (including our own Naba Gurung) visit to south Sudan focused on the opportunities for supporting food and food security programs in southern Sudan. A number of CFGB members have longstanding relations and work in Sudan. The team met with government, national and international NGO's, church leaders and UN agencies. 

One common message that the team encountered was that without peace there is little development, including food security and that the earlier promise of a peace dividend is fast fading. There are indications of great concern that the peace agreement is in trouble. You can read more about the situation in Sudan online. 

Donations to support our work can be made through our secure website under the following designations:

* 50th anniversary gifts
* Canadian Foodgrains Bank
* HIV and AIDS
* Undesignated
* Francine Nijimbere Fund
* Emergency response

7. Gender Equality Learning Program in Mozambique

For the last 18 months, Zaida Bastos has taken the lead in facilitating the gender learning program in Nampula, Mozambique. The program consists of 8 modules of 4 days each. A total of 25 participants are involved in the training. 

The initiative is being co-funded by PWRDF, COCAMO, and CIDA. The initiative of developing a gender learning program came about after PWRDF carried out a gender audit of a PWRDF partner in Nampula. The result of the audit showed that there was a need to train qualified people on gender to strengthen the community development programs. The modules to date have covered a diversity of gender issues such as gender and social constructions; division of tasks in community and society, "reproductive work" versus "productive work", the economic resources and how to do a gender-sensitive budget; gender and poverty, gender and development; what is gender analysis and how to apply it to program, etc. The modules use a number of participatory methodologies to help people use their own experience at home, in the workplace, and in the community, to identify gender behaviours, attitudes, cultural traditions that are harmful and undermine gender equality.

One of the sayings in Mozambique is that: "to educate a girl is like watering the neighbour's vegetable garden." This underscores the value put on girls' education and literally considers girls' education a waste of resources because it will profit the husband and the family in which the girl will marry. Theatre in radio has been part of the overall program to challenge beliefs and behaviours. The next module of the workshop will concentrate on training groups on how to research, develop and animate gender workshops and PWRDF will be providing gender tool-kits in Portugese as important tools for the gender educators to use in future work.

8. Gender and HIV

Following on the successful gender conference co-sponsored by PWRDF and several other Canadian churches in Tanzania in April, 2008, curriculum materials on HIV, gender and human rights are being developed by an agency in South Africa. Partners have been requesting this kind of material because they have had difficulty in reaching out to men in the past; it is essential to educate men on the importance of their role in transmitting HIV.

The materials are currently being tested and vetted by a small working group, one of whom is Charles Macharia, the HIV co-ordinator for PWRDF's partner, Christian Community Services of Mount Kenya East. The materials will be refined and then published so that there will be greater understanding in the communities of the links between gender inequality and the prevalence of HIV.

9. How to Keep PWRDF on the Radar over the summer

Before you take off for the summer, it might be a good time to review the following questions regarding your parish's PWRDF program for the past year: 

* What were the successes?
* Did the parish grow in its awareness of PWRDF?
* Did it grow in its understanding of global justice issues?
* What might be improved next year?
* What do you see as priorities for next year?

You might want to prepare a brief written overview for the record, and also give some thought of who might be part of your committee next year. Approach a good candidate now. You can all take a break for the summer, but aim to have the committee up and running with renewed enthusiasm in the fall.

While the year's activities are still fresh, get together with your committee to brainstorm ideas for next year's program. That way, you can get started early on those good ideas that might take a bit of lead time -- The Vital Link -- A Tool Kit for Parish Representatives of The Primate's World Relief and Development Fund.

This is my last Email Update as I shall be leaving PWRDF at the end of July 2009. I shall miss the dialogue that we have had over the last few years through this newsletter and during my 7 1/2 years at PWRDF but it is always good to have someone new take over the reins with a fresh perspective. Blessings to you all, Yvonne (ylane@pwrdf.org)

Thank you for supporting The Primate's World Relief and Development Fund (PWRDF)

----------

You are currently subscribed to %%list.name%% as: %%emailaddr%%.
To unsubscribe click here: %%url.unsub%%
or send a blank email to %%email.unsub%%

Primate's World Relief and Development Fund
The Anglican Church of Canada
80 Hayden Street
Toronto Ontario M4Y 3G2