Welcome to Update - The Primate's World Relief and Development Fund newsletter and information bulletin for subscribers.

PWRDF is the Anglican Church of Canada's agency for international development, relief, refugees and justice issues. This list is an outgoing communication service from PWRDF only. Please contact Yvonne Lane at ylane@pwrdf.org for more information on any of the following items:

June 2008

1. Burma Cyclone & China Earthquake Relief
2. Canadian Council for Refugees - 30 years on
3. World Refugee Day - June 20
4. National Aboriginal Day - June 21
5. International Church Action for Peace in Palestine and Israel
6. CFGB Update on World Food Crisis
7. PWRDF 50th Anniversary
8. Regional Meetings
9. Families for PWRDF
10. Justgeneration.ca Facilitator Appointed
11. PWRDF May Board Meeting
12. Staff comings and goings
13. Local Heroes

1. Burma Cyclone & Sichuan, China Earthquake Relief Funds

To date, PWRDF has released $10,000 to ACT International for use by Amity Foundation in China, a member of ACT International, and $30,000 to ACT International for use by local organizations in Burma. We have recently received revised information from the government about matching donations from individual Canadians to the two above emergencies. Please check our website for specific information, but note that funds will only be matched for donations received between the following dates:

     Burma Cyclone Relief Fund - May 2 - June 13
     Sichuan Earthquake Relief Fund - May 12 - June 23.

Despite lack of humanitarian access and logistical challenges, members of ACT International were early in getting resources through to local organizations, providing clean water, emergency food and non-food items to more than 100,000 people in Myanmar.

PWRDF is concerned that donations have been slow to trickle in. It is impossible to quantify the extent of human suffering in these most recent disasters, so we look forward to your financial gifts that enable us to provide assistance as requested by ACT International. To read more about the magnitude of the emergencies please check our website story.

Burma's other humanitarian crisis - Protracted armed conflict in eastern Burma has displaced over a million people during the past decade with over 140,000 people currently residing in refugee camps in Thailand. The international community has generously responded with basic food, shelter, health care and education needs for over 20 years, but there is concern over maintaining stability in the border areas with the current soaring global rice and oil prices. 

PWRDF has many years of development experience in working with partners such as Women's League of Burma and Alternative Asean Network on Burma, and proud of our reputation of working with all ethnic groups in support of human rights and democracy in that country. Since the democracy uprising in 1988, many of the civil society groups who fled the country continue to defend democracy and citizens' rights from the border areas of Burma in Thailand. 

You may also wish to see the story on the PWRDF Indigenous Peoples' exchange trip to the Thailand-Burma Border in 2007

2. Canadian Council for Refugees - 30 Years On

Created in 1978, the Canadian Council for Refugees has established itself as the national voice on refugee protection and newcomer settlement in Canada. Over 30 years of existence, the CCR and its members have made a profound difference in the lives of refugees and immigrants. To celebrate, they would like help in (1) recruiting new members, (2) fundraising, (3) and educating the public about refugees and immigrants. To learn more or help out, you can contact Faith Shamonda at ccr30@ccrweb.ca.

PWRDF staff attended the CCR Spring Consultation which took place in Winnipeg from May 22-24. The theme of the consultation, "Our Past, Our Future: Our Children", was an opportunity to highlight how Canada is taking into account "the best interest of the child" as required in the Immigration and Refugee Protection Act (IRPA). The following resolutions were passed:

That CCR request to Canadian Immigration 

1. To review the process for changing data such as birth date in identification papers, to make it faster and less difficult for children; 
2. To find alternative solutions to the request of having the other parent consent, when a parent who is a refugee or permanent resident in Canada is looking to reunify with its children, in particular in cases of domestic abuse. 

Considering the burden that the immigration loans program poses on refugees, in particular those in most need, another important resolution was that CCR call upon the government to absorb the transportation and medical expenses for resettled refugees and dependents abroad, without reducing the total number of resettled refugees. 

The consultation was also an opportunity for discussions and updates on the main campaigns. Among others, Proud to Aid and Abet Refugees; Implementation of Right to Appeal (Bill C280); Family Reunification; and Regularization of Non-status persons. 

For detailed information refer to CCR website https://www.web.ca/ccr

3. World Refugee Day - June 20

The UNHCR has designated June 20 as World Refugee Day. As UNHCR reports, the refugee challenge in the 21st century is changing rapidly and people are forced to flee their homes for increasingly complicated reasons. Currently about 40 million people worldwide are already uprooted by violence and persecution, and it is likely that the future will see more people on the run as a growing number of factors compound one another to create conditions for further forced displacement.

Today people do not just flee persecution and war but also injustice, exclusion, environmental pressures, competition for scarce resources and all the miserable human consequences of dysfunctional states.

The task facing the international community in this environment is to find ways to unlock the potential of refugees who have so much to offer if they are given the opportunity to regain control over their lives. 

As Antonio Guterres, on the occasion of World Refugee Day, 2007 noted: "World Refugee Day is the occasion to call attention to the millions of refugees and other displaced around the world and to their urgent needs, from water and shelter to protection and tolerance. Please join us in this effort. Whether in remote camps or in nearby neighbourhoods, there are always ways with which we can help them. It begins by remembering that they did not leave home by choice"

Check our website for further information leading up to and on this date.

More on the UNHCR website https://www.unhcr.org/events/3e7f46e04.html

4. National Aboriginal Day - June 21

National Aboriginal Day (Canada) is part of the annual nation-wide Celebrate Canada! Festivities held from June 21 - July 1 and is a day for all Canadians to celebrate the cultures and contributions to Canada of First Nations, Inuit and Metis peoples. June 21 was chosen because of the cultural significance of the summer solstice (first day of summer and longest day of the year) and because many Aboriginal groups mark this day as a time to celebrate their heritage.

For more information about events across Canada, refer to Indian and Northern Affairs Canada website and check out the PWRDF website closer to the date.
https://www.ainc-inac.gc.ca/nad/evts-eng.asp

5.	International Church Action for Peace In Palestine & Israel

During the week of June 4-10, while the commemorations of Israel's 60th anniversary take place, the World Council of Churches is running a simultaneous global week of awareness on the situation in both Palestine and Israel. Why? To seek justice for Palestinians so that both Israelis and Palestinians can live in peace.

Kairos: Canadian Ecumenical Justice Initiatives has materials available - information sheet, bulletin insert and a Jerusalem prayer from the Heads of Churches in Jerusalem.
https://www.pwrdf.org

6. CFGB Update on World Food Crisis

Canadian Foodgrains Bank (CFGB) will be issuing a special financial appeal to the public to support their efforts to meet the growing food aid needs resulting from the food price crisis, and to support initiatives to address the problem in the longer term. The price rises are expected to reduce their program by at least 25%. They have received some additional funding from the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA). You can read a copy of the CFGB Food Justice Network Update for May 2008 online.
https://www.foodgrainsbank.ca/food_justice_updates.aspx

7.	PWRDF 50th Anniversary

The PWRDF Board has agreed to celebrate the 50th anniversary over a 20-month period with a four-pronged focus: Celebration - of our Anglican Ministry, Awareness- building of name and ministry, Education - deepening engagement of Anglicans in advocacy & education and Fundraising. The celebration will wrap up at General Synod in 2010.

Archbishop Fred Hiltz and Executive Director Cheryl Curtis will be in Springhill, NS for a launch and commemoration on October 23, 2008.

The 50th Anniversary Steering Committee which is comprised of bishops, clergy, diocesan reps and youth has been established and will be getting together in the next while to put a plan in place.

8.	Regional Meetings

PWDF Regional meetings for 2008 with the specific program themes are as follows:

Province of British Columbia: September 25-27- Langley, BC 
Latin America focus
Contact: Peter Goodwin: goodmac@shaw.ca

Province of Canada: October 2 - 4 - Glace Bay, NS 
Indigenous Peoples' focus
Contact: Rev Stacey LeMoine Stacey.renouf@ns.sympatico.ca

Province of Rupert's Land: October 31-November 2 - Saskatoon 
Asia Pacific focus
Contact: Barbara Spurr roxanaspurr@yahoo.ca

Province of Ontario: November 13-15 - Ottawa 
Africa HIV/AIDS focus
Contact: Dave Chisholm dave@dadero.com

For additional information please contact ylane@pwrdf.org or the local contact person for your Ecclesiastical Province as above. Those eligible to attend are all our diocesan contacts and others interested and involved at the parish level. Accommodation is provided and expenses are covered. Some of the regional meetings will be hosting events open to those not attending the meetings.

9. Families for PWRDF

The May focus of the PWRDF Family Calendar is Lend a Hand. Check out our website for ideas for family activities and age-specific activities for children. 
https://www.pwrdf.org/give/families-for-pwrdf/may-lend-a-hand/

The June, 2008 theme - HIV and AIDS touches all of us... will be supported by information shortly, so please check out our website. 
https://www.pwrdf.org/give/families-for-pwrdf/

These theme conversations can be enjoyed at any time with a child you are fond of, feel free to flip backwards in the calendar and explore a theme you missed earlier.

10.	justgeneration.ca Facilitator

The new justgeneration.ca facilitator, Simon Chambers, began his ministry with PWRDF on May 26. Simon comes from a background in parish and diocesan youth ministry in the Diocese of Toronto. He brings a passion for youth ministry and for justice and peace to his work with PWRDF. His work will focus on communicating the stories of PWRDF with young Anglicans, developing resources, and supporting and integrating youth into the structures and work of PWRDF. Simon is just beginning to get to know the people and the projects of PWRDF and looks forward to continuing the youth initiatives work.

Simon will represent PWRDF at Generation 2008, the National Anglican Youth Ministry Forum, from June 10-15 at Huron College in London, Ontario. The forum will gather youth leaders from across Canada for six days of networking, learning, worship, and fellowship. Justgeneration.ca is proud to support Generation 2008. Simon looks forward to hearing from you and can be contacted at schambers@pwrdf.org.

11.	PWRDF May Board Meeting May 8-10

The PWRDF Board recently met in Toronto at Church House. A follow-up conference call was held on May 15 with Executive Director Cheryl Curtis to brief all diocesan representatives and coordinators. Please contact ylane@pwrdf.org or your local diocesan contact if you would like additional information.

12. Staff comings and Goings

Zaida Bastos and Mahjabeen Chowdbury are currently on sabbatical leave until September.
Alica Locquaio will return from maternity leave at the end of June
Keith Knight, our Interim Communications Coordinator, will be leaving at the end of June and has been appointed interim editor of the Anglican Journal.
Simon Chambers has just joined us as the justgeneration.ca Facilitator.

13.	Local Heroes

St. Mary the Virgin, Whitewood, Qu'Appelle will be celebrating 125 years of continuous ministry in 2008 and will be having a weekend of celebration and thanksgiving on June 21 & 22.

Liam Olsen, 8 years old, who attends St. Anne's, Steveston in Richmond, BC with his grandmother Rev. Gladys Olsen did a 5 km run in support of PWRDF and the emergencies in China and Burma. In one week more than $1,600 was pledged to Liam. See our website story and a photo of Liam.

We are delighted that the following youth groups have held Side-by-Side: Off-the-Grid events recently: 

St. George's, Georgetown, ON
Christ Church & St. Michael & All Angels, Beaconsfield, QC
St. John's, Ancaster, ON
All Saints, Collingwood, ON
Anglican Youth in Ottawa diocese
Christ Church, Fredericton, NB

The Side-by-Side is a complete 24 hour program which focuses on the environmental and social implications of our dependence on electricity, resource extraction, climate change, warfare and pollution, by challenging participants to go off the electricity grid for 24 hours. It is designed to be a fun, informative and exciting opportunity for youth to become engaged in the issues from a variety of perspectives, and to use what they have learned to make positive changed in their communities. If you know of any of the young people who participated, you may wish to discuss it with them.
https://justgeneration.ca/offthegrid


Thank you for supporting The Primate's World Relief and Development Fund (PWRDF)

You are currently subscribed to %%list.name%% as: %%emailaddr%%.
To unsubscribe click here: %%url.unsub%%
or send a blank email to %%email.unsub%%

Primate's World Relief and Development Fund
The Anglican Church of Canada
80 Hayden Street
Toronto Ontario M4Y 3G2