Welcome to Update - The Primate's World Relief and Development Fund newsletter and information bulletin for subscribers.

PWRDF is the Anglican Church of Canada's agency for sustainable development, relief, refugees, and global justice. With the support of Anglicans from across Canada, PWRDF makes financial and human resources available to support partners' initiatives to improve the quality of daily life and address the root causes of poverty and injustice. This list is an outgoing communication service from PWRDF only. Please contact Yvonne Lane at ylane@pwrdf.org for more information on any of the following items:

May 2009

1. Volunteer Appreciation Week
2. Earth Day 
3. 50th Anniversary Events 
4. Halifax Justice Camp to focus on Poverty
5. 2009/10 Annual Resources -- **new information**
6. Personhood -- thoughts from a Board Member
7. Family Calendar Focus 2009
8. HIV and AIDS -- the need continues
9. Local Heroes 


1. Volunteer Appreciation Week

As we celebrated Volunteer Appreciation week in April, we would like to give thanks now and throughout the year, to our volunteers -- in the parishes -- in the Dioceses, some of whom we know and others who go about their work quietly. A big heartfelt thank you for responding, "to the gospel call to bear witness to God's healing love in a broken world." - PWRDF Mission Statement

2. Earth Day

As our focus on Earth Day, we would like to reflect on the impact of global climate change. Food production, processing, and distribution accounts for close to 25% of world greenhouse gas emissions; the largest part of which comes from the production and use of petro-chemical fertilizers. Organic farming can reduce the impact modern agriculture has on the planet, relying on organic materials and soil biology for crop nutrition, rather than energy-intensive fertilizers. For more information on our partner work in this area, refer to some of our work in Bangladesh. https://tinyurl.com/cqomkj

3. 50th Anniversary Events

Liturgical Stoles - As part of PWRDF's 50th anniversary celebrations, we commissioned the women weavers of theWomen's Ecumenical Network (REM) in Guatemalato weave a number of stoles for sale in Canada. In purchasing and wearing one of these stoles, you are becoming part of their stories. But before you wear it, hold it close, feel its weave, breath in the faint smell of wood smoke emanating from the fabric, and remember that it was woven on a simple, back strap loom, by the home fire of a Guatemalan woman weaver. Stoles are $40 each including shipping costs in Canada. To purchase a stole, contact Patience Mbwizhu, Donor Relations Officer, at pmbwizhu@pwrdf.org, or 416-924-9199 ext 320. Visit https://www.pwrdf50.org/story/guatemalan-stoles-now-available-purchase-pwrdf for more information about these stoles and the Women's Ecumenical Network in Guatemala and the story and photos of one of the weavers, Miriam. https://www.pwrdf50.org/image/partners/guatemalan-stoles

50 Leaders Project - The celebration subcommittee of the 50th Anniversary Steering Committee has initiated the 50 Leaders Project to enable 50 Anglicans between the ages of 16 and 30 to discern, develop and share their leadership gifts. Participants will be given opportunities to engage with a mentor and in spiritual direction. The ultimate objective for those involved in this journey will be to live out the gospel call to bear witness to God's healing love in a broken world. A poster has been developed and will be available shortly. 

"50 Leaders is an incredible opportunity for PWRDF to help young people to grow as leaders in the church, to live out their passion for justice, and to help to bring about another world, one of peace and justice," says Simon Chambers, the justgeneration.ca Facilitator and member of the 50 Leaders team.

For more information contact Simon Chambers or visit https://www.justgeneration.ca/

4. Finding Abundance Poverty Justice Camp to be held in Halifax August 9 -- 15. 

Justice camps are week-long immersion experiences focusing on a specific justice issue in the light of Bible study and prayer. They're an initiative of the Partners in Mission and Ecojustice Committee of The Anglican Church of Canada, but are locally led. PWRDF is part of planning the camp through its Public Engagement team and will also cover the costs for some participants. Each camp integrates hands-on experience and includes a mix of ages, of men and women, of locals and out of towners. To register please go to https://justicecamp.ca/register_cfa We are encouraging PWRDF volunteers of all ages to attend this and can provide some funding. If you are seeking funding please contact Simon Chambers schambers@pwrdf.org Please, note that registration deadline is June 12.

5. 2009-10 Annual Resources -- **new information*

Please note that this year, the annual resources will not be automatically distributed to all parishes as in the past.

As we streamline our processes and cut costs, we shall be advising all parishes of this by the end of May and requesting that they confirm in writing whether they require and use the existing resources, or whether changes should be made to their order. Please make sure that your parish is made aware of this, and that they respond accordingly, otherwise, we cannot guarantee that resources will be available, particularly for last minute requests. The mailing in May will include details about the resources and some visuals so parishes know what resources they can choose to use.

6. Personhood -- thoughts from a Board Member

I recently received an article from Judy Oatway, PWRDF Board member from Montreal. After attending a graduate symposium at the theology department of Concordia University, she had the following comments, hereby extracted:

"Relationship is the essence of personhood. This relationship is of such importance to our very being that at our baptism, our membership into the family of God, we enter into a covenant with God, "...that we will seek peace and justice and respect the dignity of every human being." To not do so will diminish us and we will be less than what we have been called to be. To not respond when others are forced to live in oppression, violence and humiliation results in the diminishment of everyone. My humanity is completely bound to the humanity of all others.

Such an understanding of the interconnectedness of personhood and humanity is at the root of relationships, including the relationship between the partners of PWRDF. It is so important to not only understand the interconnectedness but to continually build and strengthen that relationship at each opportunity and at every level. We all have the capacity to know and accept our own personhood and the personhood of all others. With that acceptance we achieve the freedom to act in love and relationship, the very essence of our personhood."

7. Family Calendar Focus 2009

We hope you are reading the stories and trying out the activities with children in your lives. The focus for May in our calendar is our partner CoCoSi, the Committee against AIDS in El Salvador. To connect with this you may wish to read a reflection from our website on at risk youth on the streets of El Salvador by Brian Rude, Pastor/Missionary of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in Canada who works with PWRDF partner, CoCoSi. https://tinyurl.com/dhwmrc

8. HIV/AIDS -- the need continues

The Ecumenical Advocacy Alliance is a broad international network of churches and Christian organizations cooperating in advocacy on food and HIV/AIDS. For up to date information and resources and the Keep the Promise: HIV/AIDS Campaign Bulletin, please check out their website. https://www.e-alliance.ch/

Approximately $200,000 was received by PWRDF in the last financial year and designated to HIV/AIDS work through partners. Homecare is being received, nutrition provided, and comfort offered to many individuals.

9. Local Heroes

Trinity Church, St. Bruno, QC -- notes from Mary Hague:

We are a small congregation of approximately 35-45 dedicated parishioners attending church each Sunday.We are continually financially challenged and moving on in faith. 

We sold our building last year and we are worshiping in the parish of St. Augustine of Canterbury Roman Catholic Church in St. Bruno.We have been so blessed by the continual Christian attitude and encouragement of St. Augustine's.

The general feeling was that we do not have the resources to continue to hold the Lenten Lunch, but Eleanor Wallace, a long time parishioner, was willing to step up and take on the leadership role to make this happen. Shestressed that she would need everyone's support in order to do this. Astrid Norquay agreed to co-chair with Eleanor and we were on our way to another successful Lenten Lunch.

Parishioners made double batches of Carrot Soup and squares... Those who could not be there (those holding down real jobs) or could not contribute with baking etc., made donations to defray the cost of butter, rolls, cheese, coffee, milk etc. And yes most of us stayed to clean up!

No surprise... some helpers were United Church and Roman Catholic parishioners...What a community!

We served 163 lunches and sold $75 worth of left over soup. The net proceeds were $782.00

Each and every person involved in our Lenten Lunch creates a chain of encouragement for others... However small you think your contribution is it multipliesas we reach out.

Elaine Hanson, Parish of Touchwood Trails, Fort Qu'Appelle, SK -- Elaine has been the Parish Representative for the parish for more than two decades. She has provided energy and commitment to the work in support of changing lives, changing communities and changing the world.

St. Andrew's, Happy Valley-Goose Bay, NL, like PWRDF is celebrating its 50th anniversary this year and as a thank you offering for the blessings received, Archdeacon Charlene Taylor, rector of the parish challenged the Sunday school and youth: If they collected $2,000 for PWRDF, then she would allow them to colour her hair -- any colour! As Charlene reports, "March 13 was the deadline for the challenge. On that day we gathered for pizza that enabled the time to teach about rich and poor, developed and developing countries, and distribution of wealth. We then stayed awake for 24 hours and a stylist from a local salon came to the parish hall and allowed the kids to colour my hair."

You can see photos of the event on our 50th anniversary website -- https://www.pwrdf50.org/

Thank you for supporting The Primate's World Relief and Development Fund (PWRDF)

----------

You are currently subscribed to %%list.name%% as: %%emailaddr%%.
To unsubscribe click here: %%url.unsub%%
or send a blank email to %%email.unsub%%

Primate's World Relief and Development Fund
The Anglican Church of Canada
80 Hayden Street
Toronto Ontario M4Y 3G2