Welcome to Update - The Primate's World Relief and Development Fund newsletter and information bulletin for subscribers.

PWRDF is the Anglican Church of Canada's agency for sustainable development, relief, refugees, and global justice. With the support of Anglicans from across Canada, PWRDF makes financial and human resources available to support partners' initiatives to improve the quality of daily life and address the root causes of poverty and injustice. This list is an outgoing communication service from PWRDF only. Please contact Yvonne Lane at ylane@pwrdf.org for more information on any of the following items:

November 2008

1. World AIDS Day, 2008 - December 1 
2. Anglican Supported Projects in South Africa
3. 50 Refugee Sponsorship Project
4. PWRDF Partner Visits to Canada
5. Regional Meetings
6. PWRDF Board Meeting
7. Christmas Card sales
8. 2008/09 Annual Resources
9. Emergency Response
10. Local Heroes 

1. World AIDS Day, 2008 - December 1 

December 1, 2008 marks the 20th anniversary of World AIDS Day. While treatment for HIV & AIDS has improved and become more widespread since 1988, there are those who still do not have access to it. It is believed that stigma and discrimination continue to be a threat to universal access. 

South Africa is said to be experiencing one of the most severe AIDS epidemics in the world, as at the end of 2007, there were approximately 5,700,000 people living with HIV and almost 1,000 deaths occurring daily. The number of orphans due to AIDS aged 0 to 17 is estimated at 1,400,000. 
PWRDF Partner, Temba House in the Eastern Cape Province in South Africa is working to assist communities affected by HIV & AIDS and provides care and support to women, girls, men and boys, infected and affected by the virus. Through the care and support of Temba House, many chronically ill patients were discharged, without ARV therapy. For more information on this project, please contact pwrdf@pwrdf.org. 

For resources to use during your AIDS services, please check out the PWRDF website.
http://www.pwrdf.org/resources/hivaids-resources/

2. Anglican Supported Projects in South Africa

Staff of the Anglican Journal and Anglican Video were recently in South Africa and filmed several Anglican-supported projects in the Johannesburg area. One of the projects visited was PWRDF partner, the John Wesley Centre, Etwatwa which provides health care, child care and skills training for families affected by HIV/AIDS. For additional information and to see a slide show of the trip, please check here.
http://www.anglican.ca/news/news.php?newsItem=2008-11-13_as1.news

3. 50 Refugee Sponsorship Project

As Primate Fred Hiltz commented in his Pastoral Letter to the House of Bishops on October 30, 2008, "the 50 Refugee Families Sponsorship Project is an exciting component of the PWRDF 50 anniversary program. It provides us with another opportunity to realize our baptismal covenant to strive for peace and justice and the respect the dignity of every person."

"I had nothing left but my faith." These words, spoken both to the National House of Bishops and to the Council of General Synod, left no doubt in the minds of those present that refugee sponsorship changes lives. Annie Kashamura Zawadi, a former refugee from the Democratic Republic of Congo, shared her moving story of living as a refugee, believing that each day might be her last, and of finally receiving the miraculous news that Holy Trinity Anglican Church in Thornhill, Ontario had agreed to sponsor her and her five children to begin a new life in Canada. "The sponsorship was the last lifeline that God sent to me," Annie told the hushed groups. She then shared her concern for the millions of refugees around the world still living in fear and uncertainty. "They are just waiting for God's amazing grace". 

Annie's story of living for many years as a refugee is not unique. As part of our 50th anniversary, PWRDF plans to support and facilitate the sponsorship of 50 refugee families in dioceses and parishes across Canada. To find out how your parish can be part of a miracle, like the one that brought Annie and her children to a new life in Canada, contact your diocesan refugee sponsorship coordinator, or Carolyn Vanderlip at 416-924-9199 ext 266, or cvanderlip@pwrdf.org. For the full story about Annie's presentation to the House of Bishops, click here. To read the Primate's pastoral letter to the House of Bishops on refugee sponsorship, click here.

4. PWRDF Partner Visits to Canada

PWRDF has been fortunate to welcome partners to Church House in the last month:

Caixa das Mulheres de Nampula, Mozambique - Elizete Nampuio, the president of Caixa gave a lunch time talk on November 12 about her organization which is a micro-credit organization of women, run by women, and women-owned. Caixa has 3,300 members and provides loans to women wanting to set up small businesses. Please check out our website in the next little while for an interview with Elizete and related story.

Temba House, Mthatha, South Africa - Lulu Boxoza, Executive Director of Temba Community Development Services attended the regional meeting in Ottawa, November 13-15 and spoke about the work at Temba House. The community was created in 1999 and its initial focus was to address issues of grassroots development. However, it soon became apparent that the major preoccupation in people's minds was HIV and AIDS. 

Read more about the work at Temba in our story above and a follow up story to appear shortly on our website after Lulu's presentation to a Church House staff lunch. The feedback we received after Lulu's presentation at our meeting in Ottawa included comments such as "compelling, informative, inspirational".

General Secretary of the National Council of Churches in the Philippines (NCCP) - Rev Fr. Rex R.B. Reyes will be in Toronto November 25 - December 2 and at Church House on Thursday November 27 to speak about the peace and justice work of NCCP and its history of partnership with the Anglican Church of Canada and PWRDF. Fr Rex will be meeting other Canadian Church and non-church members of Canadian civil society who work in solidarity with NCCP for peace and justice.

Fr. Rex is an Igorot priest with the Episcopal Church in the Philippines (ECP). Igorots are the indigenous population of the Philippines who live in the northern regional called Cordillera. He is the first indigenous person to take the leadership of NCCP following his predecessor Sharon Ruiz Duremdes who was the first woman lay theologian to become the Secretary General of NCCP.

5. Regional Meetings

The four regional meetings held in Langley, BC, Glace Bay, NS, Saskatoon, SK and Ottawa, ON this fall are now all complete. We had a wonderful turnout to the meetings and were encouraged by the positive comments from those who attended. Generally, everyone loved the presence of our partners to speak about their PWRDF supported projects, the format and content of meetings, the attendance of KAIROS staff in Ottawa and the Canadian Foodgrains Bank regional coordinators in Ottawa and Saskatoon, and in all places, the wonderful food and hospitality provided by our very generous hosts. 

A review and evaluation will take place of the meetings in the next few weeks and a report will be issued to all attendees in the early part of 2009. We thank you all.

6. PWRDF Board Meeting 

The PWRDF Board met in early November in Toronto. The Diocesan Representatives and Coordinators were briefed, in a teleconference call on November 12 with a report back on decisions and discussions of the Board that will be followed up with some documentation. The next call is scheduled for May 7, 2009 at 4PM.

7.	Christmas Card sales

Christmas card sales are going very well this year with less than 120 packs remaining, out of a total of 4,000 (up from 2,500 last year). We are almost out of Madonna and Child, so if you have been meaning to reorder, please contact Ricky de Castro immediately at rdecastro@pwrdf.org. Thank you to those who have already ordered and received cards.

8.	2008/09 Annual Resources

We are still learning of parishes that did not receive an automatic order of PWRDF resources for this year. If you would like to receive something, or if you are receiving too many of any item, do please let us know - pwrdf@pwrdf.org. You can view the current design for 2008/09 here. 

9.	Emergency Response

Pakistan Earthquake - we are advised that the survivors of the October 29 earthquake in Balochistan, Pakistan still await essential relief items. The areas affected are difficult to navigate geographically and the population is scattered; in addition the poor condition of the roadways makes relief efforts difficult in reaching the more remote areas.

Of concern also is the number of pneumonia and other respiratory infection cases increase because survivors continue to live outdoors. For more information and ways to donate, please refer to www.pwrdf.org 

10.	Local Heroes

Our local heroes this month have to be the Diocesan Representatives and Coordinators where our regional meetings were held who worked with teams of local folk to provide food and accommodation to out of town attendees: they were the local outreach committees who provided snacks, lunches and dinners and who worked so hard to make us feel so very welcome in their communities, for the attendees who took time to travel and be present to share their experiences and to open their ears to question and to see things differently. You all know who you are, and we thank you for your commitment and generosity. We hope you have carried the enthusiasm and excitement of those events home with you and found ways to share it at home.

Thank you for supporting The Primate's World Relief and Development Fund (PWRDF)

You are currently subscribed to %%list.name%% as: %%emailaddr%%.
To unsubscribe click here: %%url.unsub%%
or send a blank email to %%email.unsub%%

Primate's World Relief and Development Fund
The Anglican Church of Canada
80 Hayden Street
Toronto Ontario M4Y 3G2