Welcome to Update - The Primate's World Relief and Development Fund newsletter and information bulletin for subscribers.

PWRDF is the Anglican Church of Canada's agency for sustainable development, relief, refugees, and global justice. With the support of Anglicans from across Canada, PWRDF makes financial and human resources available to support partners' initiatives to improve the quality of daily life and address the root causes of poverty and injustice. This list is an outgoing communication service from PWRDF only. Please contact Yvonne Lane at ylane@pwrdf.org for more information on any of the following items: 

October 2008

1. World Food Day October 16
2. Regional meetings -- reminder
3. Walk of Witness -- September 25
4. Staff Travels
5. PWRDF 2008/09 annual resources
6. Halloween -- Reverse Trick-or-Treating
7. Youth Handbook
8. Local Heroes -- we need to hear from you

1. WORLD FOOD DAY

Thursday October 16th is World Food Day, which celebrates the day the Food and Agricultural Organization was founded in Quebec City in 1945. It is now observed annually in some 150 countries. Churches across Canada will do their part of joining together in a day of fasting and reflecting on how we are connected to issues of food injustice and hunger.

What did you do/are you doing for World Food Day? Church House staff in Toronto planned to start the day in prayer and reflection, and then watch the 20 minute video -- We are all connected which chronicles the CFGB work in India and Bangladesh. Even if you did not have chance to plan an event, you may wish to obtain the wonderful Canadian Foodgrains Bank resource -- Fast for Change with the materials to reflect on how we are all connected to the millions who are chronically malnourished. You can obtain the kit by visiting http://www.endhungerfast.com or we do have some at our office pwrdf@pwrdf.org. which we will be happy to send you.

2. REGIONAL MEETINGS 

Two meetings have already been held in Langley, BC and Cape Breton, NS and some of the feedback we have received includes -- "the entire visit was absolutely amazing ... the presentation by the partners was most inspiring. The meetings were very profitable for those who attended." "I did indeed find the meeting very interesting and useful. I learned a lot."

The next meeting will be held in Saskatoon October 31 and November 1, and the last one in Ottawa November 13 - 15. For registration information contact ylane@pwrdf.org.

3. WALK OF WITNESS 

Judy Oatway (Diocese of Montreal and PWRDF Board member) and Margery Sharp traveled to Ottawa on September 25 to join Anglicans and Lutherans in an ecumenical walk to end global poverty and hunger. Judy has provided us with an account of the event:

The Provinces of the Anglican Communion call for a day of prayer and fasting and witness on 25th September 208 when there is a special session of the United Nations to discuss the Millenium Development Goals -- 2008 Lambeth.

The day began with Liturgy of the Word at Christ Church Cathedral. All participants met in the Gathering Room at St. John the Evangelist Church; some from Toronto, many from Ottawa and two from Montreal. About sixty people in three groups began the walk -- each beginning at the Well, a safe place for women at St. John the Evangelist. The walk stopped at eight different but poignant stops to reflect upon the eight goals established by the United Nations in 2000.

Primate Fred Hiltz of the Anglican Church of Canada and National Bishop Susan Johnson of the Evangelical Lutheran Church of Canada led the walk. Everyone gathered in front of the Canadian offices of the United Nations and were welcomed by the UN staff, who also hoped that the message of the witnesses would be heard by the Canadian government.

Both leaders, Hiltz and Johnson, reiterated the words of the British Prime Minister, Gordon Brown, "poverty can be eradicated, poverty must be eradicated and if we all work together, poverty will be eradicated."

What might be the message if all those attending diocesan synods, when so many are gathered together to discuss the topics of twenty-first century Canadian synods, money and sexuality, would take up the placards of the eight Millenium goals and commit themselves to action?

For more information and to download resources, check out http://www.anglican.ca/walkofwitness

4. STAFF TRAVELS 

Glen Spurrell, Africa Program Officer, was in Tanzania visiting partners in September. He was working with our partner the Diocese of Masasi, on new reporting requirements for a large CIDA-supported program. During his visit to partners inland in Mbeya and Iringa, he saw excellent work on agriculture, water and health/hygiene. This was his first visit during the long, dry season and he was especially happy to see how much the water projects that PWRDF has supported are making a positive difference in the lives of people. As well as the usual benefits of safe, clean water, beneficiaries were also thrilled to be able to make bricks for their homes and other structures.

Naba Gurung and Rev Cathy Miller, our Diocesan Representative for Toronto, travelled to India and Sri Lanka. Please check our website shortly for more information on their travels.

5. 2008/09 ANNUAL RESOURCES 

The mailing of our annual resources has now taken place and all parishes should have received their order. If your parish is not on our database and you would like to order something, you can view them on the website and contact pwrdf@pwrdf.org to order.
http://www.pwrdf.org/resources/2008-annual-resources/

In addition, we have also produced some new materials that are available to order:

* Emergency Brochure
* The Vital Link -- a Tool Kit for Parish Representatives
* Youth Handbook

2008 Christmas cards are now available and can be ordered through Ricky de Castro -- rdecastro@pwrdf.org. See our website for more information on the two designs available.
http://www.pwrdf.org/resources/seasonal/

6. HALLOWEEN -- REVERSE TRICK-OR-TREATING 

Would you like your family to make a difference and get more involved this Halloween? If so, you can find out more about this initiative by Global Exchange whereby you reverse the Halloween tradition to hand adults a sample of Fair Trade chocolate. You can find out more by visiting http://www.justgeneration.ca and read the story by Simon Chambers about slavery in chocolate. But hurry, because if you wish to obtain a kit the deadline to order is October 15.

In choosing Fair Trade chocolate at Halloween, and every other day of the year, you are connecting with the farmers who grow and harvest your food. The guaranteed Fair Trade price paid for cocoa helps to provide farmers with a sustainable livelihood and creates hope for a better future for their children. In addition, Fair Trade certification prohibits the use of abusive child labour.

7. YOUTH HANDBOOK 

Since its introduction last month, the Youth Handbook has been flying off the shelf. If you still don't have a copy and would like to obtain one, please email youth@pwrdf.org

8. LOCAL HEROES 

We love to hear what you are doing to promote the work of PWRDF, so please provide us with information and events -- you may even get your photo on our website! Please contact ylane@pwrdf.org to share the good news. Thank you.

Thank you for supporting The Primate's World Relief and Development Fund (PWRDF)

You are currently subscribed to %%list.name%% as: %%emailaddr%%.
To unsubscribe click here: %%url.unsub%%
or send a blank email to %%email.unsub%%

Primate's World Relief and Development Fund
The Anglican Church of Canada
80 Hayden Street
Toronto Ontario M4Y 3G2